**Abstract

---

In the continuosly growing technologies in agriculture sector that has become paramount in addressing the various challenges faced by the farmers through climate change, resourse constraints, and increasing global population. The Automatic Irrigation System (AIS) gave a revolutionary enhancement in modern agriculture practices. This project support a sensor mechanism to monitor soil moisture values at the root zone of the crops and assimilates automatic valve that regulate the water release in a controlled fashion. It provide precise and efficient irrigation for the fields. This system takes care of adequate irrgation that is based on the moisture levels, weather conditions and crop requirements to deliver the right amount of water at the right time. With AIS we aim to optimize water usage and assist sustainable agriculture. To attain this, we have developed our Own Moisture Detection Sensor that measures moisture vales at a considerable Accuracy at a very Low Cost, that is the key feature of this project that makes it Cost Efficient. This sensor come up with Real Time Data, allowing you not to be concernerd about whether your field is overwatered or underwatered. For more precision we are integrating Machine Learning to make prediction and work accurately according to the instantanious situations, using ANN and Logistic Regression. The model will be well trained to take accurate predictions and work precisely. As the 70% of the total data will be used to train the model and remaining 30% for testing. Our model will br trained on various classifications which are comprised of different fields, like seasons, soil type, crop type, physical location, weather, etc. This information is avaliable at your fingertips through a user-friendly interface which is designed to be more handy for the farmers. This interface is directly connected to the firebase, which helps to integrate sensors data and field informations with the interface. Additionally we have integrate manual controls in the interface, which enhance the flexibility to adjust your irrigation schedules. Moreover, we facilitated the system to adapt for different crop, by integrating Crop Specific Algorithms. User can select their crop variety through the interface and this system will work accordingly. There are certain addons on this interface, which includes- Current Weather Conditions, Government released schemes for farmers and an interactive ChatBot so that it will be more user friendly. Our interface supports Multiple Languages, reason behind is to make sure everyone can use it and benefit by our system, despite of their preferred languages. Overall, our aim is to enhance waters usage and improve yields. By automating irrigation, providing real-time data and integrating various features, we are making it easier for our farmers to manage their field. 
